Ok so, welcome back.
Anyway now let us
write our first hello
world program. This
is a standard thing
which pretty much
everybody learns at the
very beginning. how
to print hello world
on to the screen and now we will need to
make our program write this to standard
output in order to
achieve this, we
have to use specific
functions, these
functions are part of standard C++
libraries which come with C++, one of
them is iostream, which is short for
input output stream, it is written like
this iostream, so
iostream stand for
input-output. In order
to include this
library in your program, we will have to
use the include command, the sintax is
fairly simple this
needs to go on top of
course, but I'm just
ratings pseudocode
here just to show how
it looks like so
include and then
some library I don't
know depending on
which library you are
using, for iostream
move and type like this
in like this iostream
there you go. So, in that fashion we
will include it on top
however inside you
iostream library
we have a variable cout so cout
represents our standard output cout stands for
character out all
standard libraries
in C++ there are
grouped under std
namespace now a
namespace is a way of
logically grouping
functions, variables
types, so that they
don't interfere with
each other, this way
we can have two
functions of the
same name but in two
different namespaces.
Let me give an
example, so we will utilize pretty much
all of this straight away but here I am
writing this to occur
just so you can
have a look at it.
Ok so, named by the
way pseudo code is
that's a real code just basically some
lines, notes if you will
let's put it like that.
So, if I type
namespaces, let me
just explain what they
are. If you type in
namespace and let's
say we have a namespace
A and namespace B
So let's say that namespace
a has a function
tralalala that. And
end namespace B
can also have a function of the same
name tralalala. Yeah, there you go
so this doing spaces
have two functions
of the same name but
these two functions
are in no way related
to one another. Now
we can choose which
function we will use
to access a function inside of a
namespace, we can use
a scope operator
this is a scope operator.
colon colon
for example if we
would like to access
function tralalala from namespace A
A, scope operator, function name
tralalala and B scope operator
tralalala, I know I overdid it with tralalala but yeah, anyway
forgive me for that,
I could name by
functions pretty much anything.
Anyway
this is how you would
call those functions,
how you would access
them, they can
be as I said two
completely different
functions, no way
related to one another
filling two completely
different purposes.
So, finally let us go ahead and
use what we have learned
down below in our
code and write our program.
So, we can
safely go ahead and delete all of this
climb to the top
and type the following: include iostream
that proper way and
I'm gonna delete
these spaces here.
why am i doing that?
well it makes no difference in terms of good functionality but, it does make a
difference in terms of aesthetics and
it's very important for your code to be
readable by others. Why?
Well, most of the
time more than one
person will work the
same code and you
will be criticized if your code is not
readable, so make sure that your code
looks very nice, that it is a pleasure to
read it when somebody sees it it's
perfect, it's in
perfect arrangement,
perfectly indented,
perfectly separated
etc. This is very important it is
important when you like submit samples
for a job application either as a
freelancer on the net or would you
submit samples of your work to
companies etc, they will immediately the
very first thing that they will see is
how your code is written, is it need? is it
nice? is it ordered? or is it just
something that you have written for
yourself and only you can read it and no one else. So make sure that
your code is very readable, have a
standard by which you write it and stick
to it.
Go ahead and I would advise you actually go online and have a
look at coding styles,
how to make your
code look nice, etc.
We will I'm pretty
sure I will talk
about it somewhere
along the line or
as a part of the
general scope of things
but, in any case
I do believe that
you get the idea.
Anyway so, iostream
we are including a
library for input
output, next up we have
our main function, main function
is the entry point
off the program
and within the body of the main function
we will call, so STD
colon colon, cout, less and less-than sign. Hello, coma, Udemy
users. Ok so, like
this, and this will be
written to STD out,
so we are accessing
cout from namespace
STD which is a
standards name based used here.
So I could
have also written it like this
using namespace STD
semicolon, semicolon
is used at the end of his line,
and the end of the code at the end of
the line of code in order to terminated
it, is a line terminator.
and in this case I would no longer
require STD cout, but as of late this
is a bad practice, or it
is considered to be a bad
practice in general so
just type it like this
STD colon colon like
this and don't use
using namespace STD I
know it seems very
tempting to type in
using namespace STD
and never again
having to write STD
anywhere down below
but you can cause a
good and you can
cause confusion etc
because if you have two functions
that have the same name and if you have
to name spaces here
the program might
get confused, you
might cause problems
for itself, so don't
use it like this and
just go ahead and do
this: std colon colon
that's it, simple as
that, and I know I
said I would write
hello world but I lied
forgive me, it's the way it is.
So, as previously
said, cout is our
variable that represents
standard output
also said everything
from standard C++
libraries is grouped
under std namespace
so std namespace so
to access to cout
variable we use STD
colon colon cout
and lesser than lesser
than sign, is the
insertion operators,
so yeah, cout in
searching, and then I don't know some text or something else
this is actually considered a string or something else I
don't know, whatever,
actually let's create
an example I guess A
lesser than lesser B
So, A lesser than
lesser than B, means
insert, so insert
b into A, in our
example it is insert
hello you to meet
users into cout, so
insert this in to cout
that's it.
Keep in mind that
all C++ statements
end with a semicolon
C++ ignores white
spaces so you can also
write the semicolon
in the next, so we could do like
this, but doesn't
look aesthetically
pleasing and I'm
just saying that C++
ignores white spaces and they don't matter at all
it doesn't matter, it
doesn't take them into
consideration at all.
This is, as I said
this is correct but
it is considered a
good practice to put
a semicolon at the
end of the statement as we have placed here. You string what you want to
print to standard
output, must be also
enclosed in double
quotes, so double
quotes and the same
between is some
sort of a string
so, it says hello
coma, space, Udemy, space, users
exclamation exclamation mark.
Ok, so now
that we have actually
written that, we are
still not done, we
still have more, we
still have some way
to go, and we will
learn a very important concept here,
every function must return some value to
return a value rewrite return and then
something, so like this
return something I don't know some sort of variable, whatever, it doesn't matter and
that is written at the
end of the fun...
It doesn't have to
be returned to the
function but usually is.
When the return
statement is executed,
the function
terminates, so keep that in mind. There
there are cases in with recursion, etc
over the function
does terminate but it
calls itself back up
again but we will
talk about that way down the line. For
the time being,
take it for what it
is, in main function
and only in main
function and only main
function is considered
to write returno 0 so
if I break it at the
end, return 0, there
we go. So, if we don't
write anything return
0 is considered to
be there but it is a
good practice to
always right return 0
by ourselves I would
not advise skipping
it at all, this means that the program
executed successfully
0 means success, so in general
pretty much any program
out there on the
planet if it runs and
it returned 0 its
success, it works fantastic! Ok so, that
would be it
what I wanted to say
here and we will
continue on where it's.
Ok so, there are
some exceptions to
the rules which I
have stated above
about return values
and about
well mainly about to return values and
about the fact that the function
terminates with the return value etc.
There are some exceptions in a
way I would say but I don't want to
burden you with them now for the time
being in the very beginning
take it for what it
is and later as we
move along the way I
will show you more
and more and you will
begin to understand
more advanced concepts, anyway I
bet you all farewell and we shall see
each other in the next tutorial.